Add authentication/authorization docs for v11 (#3830)
ChilliCream/hotchocolate: website/src/docs/hotchocolate/security/authentication.md

---
title: Authentication
---

import { ExampleTabs } from "../../../components/mdx/example-tabs"

Authentication allows us to determine a user's identity. This is of course a prerequisite for authorization, but it also allows us to access the authenticated user in our resolvers. This is useful, if we for example want to build a `me` field that fetches details about the authenticated user.

Hot Chocolate fully embraces the authentication capabilities of ASP.NET Core, making it easy to reuse existing authentication configuration and integrating a variety of authentication providers.

[Learn more about authentication in ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/authentication)

# Setup

> Setting up authentication is largly the same as in any other ASP.NET Core application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up authentication is largely the same as in any other ASP.NET Core application.
```

**In the following example we are using JWTs, but we could use any other authentication scheme supported by ASP.NET Core.**

1. Install the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer` package

```bash
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer
```

2. Register the JWT authentication scheme

```csharp
public class Startup
{
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        var signingKey = new SymmetricSecurityKey(
            Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("MySuperSecretKey"));

        services
            .AddAuthentication(JwtBearerDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
            .AddJwtBearer(options =>
            {
                options.TokenValidationParameters =
                    new TokenValidationParameters
                    {
                        ValidIssuer = "https://auth.chillicream.com",
                        ValidAudience = "https://graphql.chillicream.com",
                        ValidateIssuerSigningKey = true,
                        IssuerSigningKey = signingKey
                    };
            });
    }
}
```

> > ⚠️ Note: This is an exemplary configuration, not intended for use in a real world application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Note: This is an example configuration that's not intended for use in a real world application.
```

> 3. Register the `UseAuthentication` middleware with the request pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Register the ASP.NET Core authentication middleware with the request pipeline by calling `UseAuthentication`
```

```csharp
public class Startup
{
    public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
    {
        app.UseRouting();

        app.UseAuthentication();

        app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
        {
            endpoints.MapGraphQL();
        });
    }
}
```

The above takes care of parsing and validating an incoming HTTP request.

> In order to make the authentication result available to our resolvers we need to complete some additional, Hot Chocolate specific, steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make the authentication result available to our resolvers, we need to complete some additional, Hot Chocolate specific steps.
```

    {
        // Omitted code for brevity
    }
}
```

</ExampleTabs.Annotation>
<ExampleTabs.Code>

```csharp
public class QueryType : ObjectType
{
    protected override void Configure(IObjectTypeDescriptor descriptor)
    {
        descriptor
            .Field("me")
            .Resolve(context =>
            {
                var claimsPrincipal = context.GetUser();
                // before v11.3.1
                var claimsPrincipal = context.GetGlobalValue<ClaimsPrincipal>(
                                        nameof(ClaimsPrincipal));

                // Omitted code for brevity
            });
    }
}
```

</ExampleTabs.Code>
<ExampleTabs.Schema>

```csharp
services
    .AddGraphQLServer()
    .AddDocumentFromString(@"
        type Query {
          me: User
          meLegacy: User
        }
    ")
    .AddResolver("Query", "me", (context) =>
    {
        var claimsPrincipal = context.GetUser();
        // before v11.3.1
        var claimsPrincipal = context.GetGlobalValue<ClaimsPrincipal>(
                                        nameof(ClaimsPrincipal));

        // Omitted code for brevity
    })
```

</ExampleTabs.Schema>
</ExampleTabs>

> After retrieving the `ClaimsPrincipal` we can access specific claims of the authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the authenticated user's `ClaimsPrincipal`, we can now access their claims.
```
